>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, JANUARY 1:
TERROR IN TURKEY.
THE NEW YEAR'S PARTY THAT BECAME
A SCENE OF A HORRIFIC MASSACRE;
AND NORTH KOREA SAYS IT'S READY
TO TEST A MISSILE CAPABLE OF
REACHING THE UNITED STATES.
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
A MASSIVE MANHUNT IS UNDERWAY IN
TURKEY FOR WHAT GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS SAY IS THE LONE GUNMAN
WHO SHOT HIS WAY INTO A POPULAR,
UPSCALE ISTANBUL NIGHTCLUB AND
OPENED FIRE ON HUNDREDS OF
PEOPLE CELEBRATING THE NEW YEAR.
BY THE TIME THE INDISCRIMINATE
SHOOTING WAS OVER INSIDE THE
REINA NIGHTCLUB THE ATTACKER HAD
ESCAPED, AND AT LEAST 39 PARTY-
GOERS, SECURITY OFFICERS, AND
CLUB EMPLOYEES WERE DEAD.
TURKEY'S INTERIOR MINISTER SAID
NEARLY TWO-THIRDS OF THE VICTIMS
WERE FOREIGN NATIONALS,
INCLUDING CITIZENS OF SAUDI
ARABIA, LEBANON, JORDAN,
MOROCCO, LIBYA, AND ISRAEL.
THE MINISTER ALSO SAID EARLY
REPORTS THAT THE ATTACKER WORE A
SANTA CLAUS COSTUME WERE UNTRUE.
>> (translated): INFORMATION
OUR FRIENDS AT THE SECURITY
FORCES HAVE GIVEN US IS THAT THE
ASSAILANT WAS ALONE, INSTEAD OF
THERE BEING MULTIPLE ASSAILANTS.
HE ENTERED WITH A JACKET AND
TROUSERS ON, RAKING GUNFIRE ON
HIS WAY IN.
AND THERE IS INFORMATION THAT HE
TRIED TO LEAVE WITH A DIFFERENT
SET OF CLOTHES.
>> Sreenivasan: TURKEY'S PRIME
MINISTER VISITED A HOSPITAL
WHERE SOME OF THE 70 PEOPLE
WOUNDED BY THE GUNMAN WERE BEING
TREATED.
SOME SURVIVORS RAN OUT OF THE
CLUB AND JUMPED INTO THE NEARBY
BOSPORUS, THE BODY OF WATER THAT
SEPARATES EUROPE AND ASIA.
>> (translated): THERE WERE
PEOPLE ON ME, I PUSHED THEM.
ON MY LEFT, RIGHT, EVERYONE WAS
CRYING.
THE SMELL OF GUNPOWDER WAS
EVERYWHERE.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE WAS NO
IMMEDIATE CLAIM OF
RESPONSIBILITY, BUT ONLY DAYS
AGO, A GROUP LINKED TO ISIS
CALLED ONLINE FOR SUPPORTERS TO
ATTACK "CELEBRATIONS, GATHERINGS
AND CLUBS."
IN A WRITTEN STATEMENT, TURKISH
PRESIDENT ERDOGAN SAID...
ERDOGAN CONTINUED...
STILL ON VACATION IN HAWAII,
PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA OFFERED
HIS CONDOLENCES AND INSTRUCTED
U.S. OFFICIALS TO RENDER ALL
POSSIBLE ASSISTANCE TO TURKEY, A
KEY NATO ALLY IN THE COALITION
FIGHTING ISIS MILITANTS IN SYRIA
AND IRAQ.
THE U.S. CONSULATE IN ISTANBUL
HAS CAUTIONED ALL AMERICANS IN
THE AREA TO KEEP THEIR MOVEMENTS
TO A, "ABSOLUTE MINIMUM."
THE NIGHTCLUB MASSACRE FOLLOWS A
STRING OF ATTACKS BY ISLAMIC
STATE OR KURDISH MILITANTS IN
TURKEY.
BACK IN JUNE, AN ATTACK ON THE
ISTANBUL AIRPORT KILLED 45
PEOPLE.
IN THE PAST MONTH A BOMBING
OUTSIDE AN ISTANBUL SOCCER
STADIUM KILLED MORE THAN 40
PEOPLE, A CAR BOMBING AT A
MILITARY STATION IN CENTRAL
TURKEY KILLED A DOZEN SOLDIERS
AND AN ASSASSIN WHO SHOUTED
ABOUT SYRIA KILLED RUSSIA'S
AMBASSADOR TO TURKEY IN A
GALLERY IN TURKEY'S CAPITAL,
ANKARA.
AT THE VATICAN TODAY, POPE
FRANCIS TOOK A MOMENT TO ADDRESS
THE NIGHTCLUB ATTACK AND URGED
WORLD LEADERS TO WORK TOGETHER
TO FIGHT WHAT HE CALLED "THE
PLAGUE OF TERRORISM."
>> (translated):
UNFORTUNATELY, VIOLENCE HAS
STRICKEN EVEN IN THIS NIGHT OF
GOOD WISHES AND HOPE.
PAINED, I EXPRESS MY CLOSENESS
TO THE TURKISH PEOPLE.
I PRAY FOR THE MANY VICTIMS AND
FOR THE WOUNDED AND FOR THE
ENTIRE NATION IN MOURNING.
>> Sreenivasan: A FERRY PACKED
WITH INDONESIANS CELEBRATING THE
NEW YEAR CAUGHT FIRE TODAY,
RESULTING IN THE DEATHS OF AT
LEAST 23 PEOPLE, WITH SOME STILL
REPORTED MISSING.
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS SAID AROUND
250 PEOPLE WERE ON BOARD WHEN
THE BOAT BURST INTO FLAMES
SHORTLY AFTER LEAVING THE
CAPITAL OF JAKARTA, BOUND FOR
RESORT ISLANDS NORTH OF THE
CITY.
THE BURNED-OUT VESSEL WAS TOWED
BACK TO JAKARTA, WHERE THE
BODIES WERE REMOVED, AND MORE
THAN 30 PEOPLE WERE TREATED AT
HOSPITALS.
POLICE SAID THE FIRE MAY HAVE
BEEN SPARKED BY A SHORT CIRCUIT
ON A POWER GENERATOR.
NORTH KOREA'S DICTATOR SAYS HIS
COUNTRY IS CLOSE TO TESTING AN
INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC
MISSILE CAPABLE OF CARRYING A
NUCLEAR WARHEAD AND REACHING THE
UNITED STATES.
KIM JONG UN ANNOUNCED THE
POSSIBLE MISSILE TEST IN HIS NEW
YEAR'S ADDRESS ON STATE-RUN
TELEVISION.
HE SAID NORTH KOREA WILL
CONTINUE TO DEVELOP NUCLEAR
WEAPONS UNLESS AND UNTIL THE
U.S. HALTS ITS ANNUAL MILITARY
EXERCISES IN SOUTH KOREA, A
LONGTIME DEMAND.
>> (translated): WE HAVE TO
PUT AN END TO THE INVASION AND
INTERFERENCE OF THE U.S. AND
FOREIGN COUNTRIES FOR CONQUERING
THE ASIA-PACIFIC THROUGH SOUTH
KOREA.
>> Sreenivasan: NORTH KOREA HAS
NEVER SUCCESSFULLY TESTED SUCH A
LONG-RANGE MISSILE, BUT IT
CONDUCTED TWO NUCLEAR WEAPONS
TESTS LAST YEAR.
ITS FOURTH AND FIFTH IN THE PAST
DECADE.
DUE TO THE REPRESSIVE COMMUNIST
REGIME IN NORTH KOREA, THOUSANDS
OF NORTH KOREANS RISK THEIR
LIVES EVERY YEAR TRYING TO
DEFECT.
INCREASINGLY, AS WE REPORTED IN
DECEMBER, THIS HAPPENS WITH
ENCOURAGEMENT FROM MEDIA
SECRETLY SMUGGLED INTO THE
COUNTRY, INCLUDING WESTERN TV
AND MOVIES AND OTHER VIDEOS
DEPICTING A BETTER LIFE
ELSEWHERE.
MANY NORTH KOREAN DEFECTORS NOW
LIVE IN DEMOCRATIC SOUTH KOREA,
WHICH HAS A FREE MARKET ECONOMY,
AND WHERE SOME DEFECTORS SUPPORT
THEMSELVES WITH A NICHE BUSINESS
THAT'S GAINED TRACTION IN THE
U.S. AND AROUND THE WORLD: FOOD
TRUCKS.
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT KARLA MURTHY HAS
THE STORY FROM SEOUL.
>> Reporter: 26-YEAR-OLD PARK
YOUNG HO RUNS THIS FOOD TRUCK AT
A HORSE RACETRACK JUST OUTSIDE
SEOUL, THE CAPITAL OF SOUTH
KOREA.
WITH RACE FANS STREAMING IN ALL
DAY, HE'S WELL POSITIONED TO
SELL HIS SANDWICHES.
>> (translated): I SOLD ABOUT
200 SANDWICHES ON FRIDAY, 300 ON
SATURDAY, 500 ON SUNDAY.
>> Reporter: DESPITE THE UPS AND
DOWNS OF THE FOOD BUSINESS, PARK
ENJOYS THE WORK, AND IS
OPTIMISTIC ABOUT THE FUTURE.
BUT 15 YEARS AGO, HIS LIFE WAS
VERY DIFFERENT.
PARK SPENT HIS CHILDHOOD ACROSS
THE BORDER IN NORTH KOREA, WHERE
A REPRESSIVE TOTALITARIAN REGIME
DEPRIVES ITS PEOPLE OF FREEDOM
AND FOOD.
>> (translated): WE LEFT THE
NORTH KOREA, BECAUSE WE DIDN'T
HAVE ENOUGH FOOD.
I DIDN'T HAVE ANY FOOD EAT FOR A
WEEK AND I GOT REALLY SICK.
MY BROTHER SAW THAT AND
CONVINCED ME AND MY DAD THAT WE
WOULD ALL DIE UNLESS WE LEFT THE
COUNTRY.
SO I CAN IMAGINE I MIGHT HAVE
BEEN DEAD BY NOW IF WE DIDN'T
COME HERE.
>> Reporter: WHEN PARK WAS 11,
HE FLED WITH HIS 19-YEAR-OLD
BROTHER THROUGH CHINA INTO
THAILAND AND FINALLY, SOUTH
KOREA.
THEY RESETTLED IN SEOUL, WHERE
THEIR LIVES CHANGED
DRAMATICALLY.
>> (translated): WHEN I FIRST
GOT HERE, IT STRUCK ME THE
VARIOUS, WIDE KINDS OF FOOD THAT
I HAD NOT SEEN IN THE NORTH.
SO MANY KINDS.
>> Reporter: BUT PARK HAD A HARD
TIME ADJUSTING TO HIS NEW LIFE.
BECAUSE HE DIDN'T KNOW HOW TO
READ OR WRITE AT FIRST, HE WAS
TEASED IN SCHOOL.
HE CAUGHT UP AND GRADUATED HIGH
SCHOOL.
NOW, HE'S IN COLLEGE MAJORING IN
BUSINESS AND RUNNING HIS FOOD
TRUCK ON THE WEEKENDS.
>> (translated): HOPEFULLY, IT
WILL BECOME THEN TEN TRUCKS,
THEN 100 TRUCKS.
I WOULD LIKE TO TRY ALL
DIFFERENT TYPES OF FOOD TRUCKS.
ALSO I WOULD LIKE TO CONTINUE
WORKING WITH MY FRIENDS, YOUNG
PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: PARK GOT HELP
STARTING HIS FOOD TRUCK BUSINESS
FROM A SOUTH KOREAN GOVERNMENT
PROGRAM THAT AIDS DEFECTORS.
GRANTS FROM ITS CORPORATE
PARTNERS COVERED THE STARTUP
COSTS OF HIS TRUCK.
>> Reporter: THE FOOD TRUCK
PHENOMENON HAS ONLY COME TO
SOUTH KOREA IN THE LAST COUPLE
OF YEARS, AFTER THE GOVERNMENT
LIFTED A BAN DUE TO SAFETY AND
SANITATION CONCERNS.
NOW THERE ARE OVER 100 FOOD
TRUCKS LIKE THESE OPERATING IN
THE COUNTRY, AND THESE TWO ARE
OWNED BY NORTH KOREAN DEFECTORS.
KIM KYONG BIN SELLS MEAT KEBABS
AND SNACKS IN THIS FOOD TRUCK.
DESPITE THE FREEDOM AND BETTER
QUALITY OF LIFE, SHE SAYS
ADJUSTING TO SOUTH KOREA WAS A
CHALLENGE.
>> (translated): WHEN YOU SAY
YOU ARE FROM THE NORTH, PEOPLE
TREAT YOU DIFFERENTLY, LIKE AN
OUTSIDER.
ALSO THEY MIGHT LOOK DOWN ON YOU
A BIT.
THAT WAS DIFFICULT- TRYING TO
BE LIKE A SOUTH KOREAN, SO THAT
YOU CAN BE TREATED FAIRLY.
>> Reporter: KIM AND HER HUSBAND
ARE AMONG THE ESTIMATED 30-
THOUSAND NORTH KOREAN DEFECTORS
LIVING IN SOUTH KOREA TODAY,
ACCORDING TO THE SOUTH KOREAN
GOVERNMENT.
AFTER DEFECTORS ARRIVE, THE
GOVERNMENT TRAINS THEM IN SOCIAL
CUSTOMS AND JOB SKILLS, AND
GIVES RESETTLEMENT PAYMENTS TO
ASSIST WITH HOUSING AND
EDUCATION COSTS.
PARK HOPES ONE DAY NORTH KOREANS
LIKE HIM WILL BE ABLE TO ENJOY
THE LIBERTIES HE HAS FOUND IN
SOUTH KOREA.
>> (translated): IN THE NORTH
YOU'RE NOT EVEN ALLOWED TO VISIT
NEIGHBORING VILLAGES FREELY,
EVEN IF YOU HAVE MONEY.
YOU HAVE TO ASK FOR PERMITS FROM
THE GOVERNMENT AND YOU'RE
ALLOWED TO TRAVEL ONLY ON
CERTAIN DATES.
WE ARE THE GENERATION TO PREPARE
FOR THE UNIFICATION OF THE
KOREAS.
>> Sreenivasan: AMERICAN PUBLIC
OPINION OF THE NEWS MEDIA
REACHED A LOW POINT LAST
SEPTEMBER, WHEN ONLY A THIRD OF
AMERICANS SURVEYED TOLD THE
GALLUP POLL THEY HAD A GREAT
AMOUNT OR FAIR AMOUNT OF TRUST
IN THE MEDIA.
THAT WAS 8% LOWER THAN 2015.
FOR SOME INSIGHT INTO WHAT THE
NEWS MEDIA CAN DO TO RESTORE AND
IMPROVE PUBLIC CONFIDENCE,
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND"'S CHRISTOPHER
BOOKER SPOKE WITH JAMES GEARY
FROM HARVARD UNIVERSITY'S NIEMAN
FOUNDATION.
>> FOR NEARLY 80 YEARS THIS 19th
CENTURY FARM HOUSE JUST OUTSIDE
OF HARVARD UNIVERSITY'S FAMED
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS,
CAMPUS HAS QUIETLY HOUSED UP
WITH OF THE MOST WELL RESPECTED
JOURNALISM FOUNDATIONS IN THE
WORLD.
ESTABLISHED IN 1938, THE
FOUNDATION WAS DESIGNED, IN THE
WORDS OF ITS FOUNDER AGNES
NIEMAN, TO PROMOTE AND ELEVATE
THE STANDARDS OF JOURNALISM.
SINCE THEN IT FUNCTIONED AS ONE
PREEMINENT SPACES FOR INDUSTRY
LEADERS TO STUDY THE NEWS MEDIA.
IN 2016 AND THE MEDIA ECOSYSTEM
THAT SURROUNDED THE ELECTION
OFFERED A NEW CHAPTER FOR
JOURNALISM.
>> THE MOMENT GOES BEYOND JUST
THIS ELECTION AND THIS CANDIDATE
AND THIS PRESIDENT-ELECT.
I THINK IT'S ABOUT SOMETHING
REALLY ESSENTIAL ABOUT
JOURNALISM AND ABOUT SOCIETY AS
A WHOLE.
>> JAMES GEARY IS THE EDITOR OF
THE FOUNDATION'S NEIMANN
MAGAZINE.
HIS TAKE ON THE MEDIA SOUNDS
LIKE A SEASONED SPORTS
BROADCASTER, ANALYZING HOW THE
GAME WAS PLAYED AND WHAT THE
INDUSTRY MUST DO IF IT HOPES TO
IMPROVE.
>> LIKE MANY OTHERS, GEARY FINDS
FAULT IN THE MEDIA'S EMPHASIS O
ON THE CONSTANT EBBS AND FLOWS
OF THE CONTEST, THE HORSE RACE,
AND THE INDUSTRY'S UNWILLINGNESS
OR RELUCTANCE TO REPORT BEYOND
THE BUBBLE OF THE CAMPAIGN.
>> THE HORSE RACE ASPECT OF THE
ELECTION,S WHO IS UP, WHO IS
DOWN AT ANY GIVEN MOMENT IN THE
CAMPAIGN IS YOU KNOW, JUST LIKE
WITH THE STOCK MARKET.
WHETHER THE STOCK MARKET IS UP
OR DOWN AT ANY GIVEN MOMENT ON
IF I GIVEN DAY DOESN'T REALLY
TELL YOU A LOT ABOUT THE
UNDERLYING TRENDS.
AND I THINK FOR A LOT OF THE
MEDIA, WE HAVE MISTOOK THE POLES
FOR THE ACTUAL TRENDS AND THE
ACTUAL TRENDS REQUIRES
REPORTING, REQUIRES TALKING TO
PEOPLE, GETTING OUTSIDE OF THE
NEWSROOM, GETTING OUTSIDE OF THE
OFFICE AND INTERACTING WITH
VOTERS.
>> LAST MONTH THEY PUBLISHED
THEIR FOURTH AND FINAL MAGAZINE
OF 2015, A COLLECTION OF ESSAYS,
PART OF AN ONGOING SERIES
EXAMINING WHAT WENT WRITE AND
WHAT WENT WRONG DURING THE 2016
CAMPAIGN COVERAGE AND WHAT
JOURNALISTS SHOULD DO NEXT.
>> IS THERE A RESPONSIBILITY
AMONGST THE CONSUMERS AND IF SO
WHERE DOES THAT RESPONSIBILITY
LIE?
>> YES, I THINK NEWS CONSUMERS,
VOTERS HAVE STOPPED SEEKING OUT
ALTERNATIVE POINTS OF VIEW.
AND ARE INCREASINGLY JUST
FOCUSING ON WHAT THEY ALREADY
KNOW AND WHAT THEY ALREADY AGREE
WITH.
OF COURSE TECHNOLOGIES AND
PLATFORMS LIKE TWITTER AND
FACEBOOK MAKE THAT VERY EASY TO
DO.
AND I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT WE AS AN INDUSTRY CAN DO IS
TO BECOME INVOLVED IN NEWS
LITERACY PROGRAMS TO VISIT LOCAL
HIGH SCHOOLS OR LOCAL COLLEGES,
COMMUNITY COLLEGES, VF-W LODGES
AND HAVE THOSE CONVERSATIONS AND
TRY AND IMPART SOME OF THE
PROFESSIONAL SKILLS THAT WE AS
JOURNALISTS HAVE DEVELOPED TO
REPORT FACTUALLY, REPORT
RESPONSIBILY AND SHARE
SOME TIPS FOR HOW NEWS CONSUMERS
CAN SPOT FAKE NEWS.
AND ALSO MAKE IT CLEAR WHY FAKE
NEWS IS SO DAMAGING.
>> BUT THERE'S ALSO A QUESTION
OF JUST WHO IS DOING THE
REPORTING.
>> I THINK A LOT OF THE TENSION
AROUND DIVERSITY HAS BEEN RACE
BASED AND HAVING MORE
JOURNALISTS OF COLOR IN THE
NEWSROOM AND THAT'S ABSOLUTELY
VITAL AND THAT'S NOWHERE NEAR
WHERE IT NEEDS TO BE.
AND THAT WORK NEEDS TO
CONTINUE BUT I THINK WE ALSO
NEED TO UNDERSTAND DIVERSITY
MORE BROADLY.
THAT DIVERSITY IS ALSO SOCIO-
AND ECONOMIC DIVERSITY, MOST
NEWSROOMS IN ADDITION TO BEING
MOSTLY WHITE AND MOSTLY MALE ARE
MOSTLY COLLEGE EDUCATED.
AND I THINK WHAT WE'VE SEEN IS
PEOPLE WITHOUT A COLLEGE
EDUCATION WHO FEEL MOST
ALIENATED BY THE MEDIA, AND MOST
TURNED OFF BY JOURNALISM.
>> IN SO MANY WAYS THE LANDSCAPE
IS LIKE A GIANT BUFFET TABLE.
ON ONE SIDE WE'VE GOT THE HIGH
FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP AND ON THE
OTHER SIDE YOU'VE GOT YOUR
VEGETABLES.
SO HOW CAN WE AGAIN CONVINCE THE
PUBLIC TO REALLY BEAT THIS
METAPHOR TO DEATH, THE DIET
NEEDS TO BE BALANCED.
>> WHAT I THINK WE DO NEED TO
GRAPPLE WITH IS THAT REALLY
GREAT AND REALLY IMPORTANT
JOURNALISM DID NOT REACH A
SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF THE
POPULATION.
HERE AT M.I.T. RIGHT DOWN THE
ROAD THERE IS A RESEARCH PROJECT
AND THEY MONITOR TWITTER TO SEE
HOW POLITICAL ISSUES PLAY OUT IN
A TWITTERSPHERE.
TWITTER IS NOT AT ALL A
REPRESENTATIVE SLICE OF THE
POPULATION BUT IS A VERY
MEDIA AND WHAT THEY FOUND IN
THEIR RESEARCH WAS THAT
REPUBLICAN-LEANING PEOPLE ON
TWITTER STAYED WITHIN THOSE
CIRCLES VERY, VERY CLEARLY AND
THE SAME FOR DEMOCRATIC LEANING
USERS OF TWITTER.
AND THERE WAS VERY LITTLE
OVERLAP.
AND I THINK IF ALL THE
INFORMATION WE RECEIVED IS
COMPLETELY TAIL ERRED TO OUR
PRECONCEPTIONS AND OUR BIASES,
THEN I THINK WE AS A SOCIETY, AS
AN ELECTORATE HAVE SOME SERIOUS
PROBLEMS.
>> BUT I THINK THERE ARE THINGS
THAT CAN BE DONE TO ADDRESS
THAT.
AND PART OF IT COULD BE A
TECHNOLOGICAL SOLUTION.
PART OF IT COULD BE MORE
OPENNESS AMONG JOURNALISTIC
OUTLETS TO COLLABORATE.
IF SAMANTHA BEE AND GLENN BECK
CAN SIT DOWN TOGETHER FOR A
CIVIL DISCUSSION WEARING FESTIVE
HOLIDAY SWEATERS AS THEY
MOST-- AS THEY RECENTLY DID,
THEN I THINK THERE'S HOPE FOR
THE REST OF US.
THAT NEWS OUTLETS COULD
COLLABORATE AND COOPERATE TO DO
THE KIND OF WORK THAT THEY NEED
TO DO AND HOPEFULLY REACH A
WIDER AUDIENCE.
>> TO LEARN ABOUT THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN WOMEN WHO ARE
PIONEERS AT NASA, VISIT
PBS.ORG/NEWSHOUR.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR DECADES, THE
RENOWNED CONCEPTUAL ARTIST
CHRISTO HAS BEEN CHANGING
PERCEPTIONS OF OUR SURROUNDINGS
BY WRAPPING STRUCTURES IN BRIGHT
FABRIC OR CREATING MASSIVE
INSTALLATIONS ON PUBLIC LAND.
HIS MOST RECENT SPECTACLE
OCCURRED LAST SUMMER IN ITALY
WHERE HE TRANSFORMED A LAKE SO
VISITORS COULD WALK ON WATER.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
WE REVISIT THE STORY REPORTED BY
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
CHRISTOPHER LIVESAY, WHO TOOK US
TO CHRISTO'S FLOATING PIERS.
>> Reporter: SOMETHING
EXTRAORDINARY HAS DRAWN
THOUSANDS OF TOURISTS FROM
AROUND THE WORLD TO THIS
NORMALLY PEACEFUL LAKE IN
NORTHERN ITALY-- LAKE ISEO, 60
MILES EAST OF MILAN.
IT'S CALLED THE FLOATING PIERS,
NEARLY TWO MILES OF SAFFRON-
COLORED, FLOATING WALKWAYS
CONNECTING THE MAINLAND TO TWO
ISLANDS USUALLY ACCESSIBLE ONLY
BY BOAT.
THE PIERS UNDULATE WITH THE
WAVES AND THE FEET OF SOME
65,000 VISITORS A DAY.
THESE COLLEGE STUDENTS ARE FROM
UTAH.
>> IT EXCEEDS EXPECTATIONS.
IT WAS A LONG JOURNEY OUT HERE,
BUT IT'S DEFINITELY WORTH IT.
>> Reporter: WHAT'S IT FEEL LIKE
WALKING BAREFOOT ON THIS
ARTWORK?
>> IT FEELS SURREAL.
UNREAL.
>> THE WAY IT MOVES IT FEELS
LIKE YOU'RE FLOATING.
>> YOU ARE FLOATING, I GUESS!
>> Reporter: THE INSTALLATION
APPEALS TO BOTH YOUNG AND OLD.
A CHANCE FOR PHOTOS AND JUST
CHILLING OUT.
>> IT'S COOL!
>> Reporter: CHIJI IS FROM
CALIFORNIA.
A LOT OF PEOPLE WOULDN'T
CONSIDER THIS ART.
>> I THINK THIS IS DEFINITELY
ART.
FOR SOMEONE TO THINK OF WHAT IT
TAKES TO MAKE THIS COME TO LIFE,
IT DEFINITELY TAKES CREATIVITY
AND IMAGINATION.
>> Reporter: THIS IS THE LATEST
CREATION BY CHRISTO, THE
BULGARIAN-BORN CONCEPTUAL ARTIST
FAMOUS FOR GIANT OUTDOOR
INSTALLATIONS.
HE WRAPPED ISLANDS IN MIAMI'S
BISCAYNE BAY IN PINK FABRIC.
PARIS' OLDEST BRIDGE, THE PONT
NEUF, IN IVORY FABRIC AND
BERLIN'S PARLIAMENT, THE
REICHSTAG, IN SILVER.
HIS LAST MAJOR PROJECT-- THE
GATES-- MORE THAN 7,000 OF THEM,
DOTTED NEW YORK CITY'S CENTRAL
PARK, BACK IN 2005.
A FEW DAYS BEFORE THE FLOATING
PIERS WERE FINISHED, I SET OFF
TO MEET THE ARTIST.
CHRISTO!
I'M CHRIS.
BEFORE WE STARTED DISCUSSING THE
PROJECT, CHRISTO WAS EAGER TO
STIR THINGS UP TO SHOW HIS PIERS
WERE SAFE EVEN WITH WAVES.
>> SEE THE WAVES!
>> Reporter: I HAD TO ASK THE
OBVIOUS QUESTION.
>> NO!
THERE IS NO BANISTER.
>> Reporter: NO BANNISTERS?
YES.
>> IT'S THE GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT
OF THE PERMITTING PROCESS.
>> Reporter: A PROCESS THAT
USUALLY TAKES YEARS OR EVEN
DECADES.
MIRACULOUSLY, THE PIERS CAME
TOGETHER IN 22 MONTHS.
>> NOW WE WALK.
THE PROJECT IS ABOUT WALKING,
YOU KNOW.
>> Reporter: A BUNDLE OF ENERGY
AT 81-YEARS-OLD, CHRISTO REFUSED
TO SIT FOR OUR INTERVIEW.
THE PIERS ARE 53-FEET WIDE AND
ABOUT A FOOT HIGH AND MADE FROM
MORE THAN 200,000 INTERLOCKING
PLASTIC CUBES.
CHRISTO INSISTS HIS STRUCTURE IS
ONLY PART OF THE ART.
>> EVERYTHING HERE.
THE WORK OF ART IS NOT THE
PIERS.
THE WORK OF ART IS ALSO THE
MOUNTAINS, THE WATER, THE
HOUSES, ALL THE WAVES.
ALL THAT TOGETHER IS THE WORK OF
ART.
>> Reporter: THE WHOLE THING.
>> YES, EXACTLY.
>> Reporter: WHILE THEY MAY LOOK
SIMPLE, CHRISTO'S PROJECTS ARE
COMPLEX, IN THIS CASE INVOLVING
ENGINEERS, HELICOPTERS AND EVEN
SCUBA DIVERS.
THE PROCESS STARTS WITH
PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE LOCATION BY
WOLFGANG VOLZ, WHO HAS WORKED
WITH HIM FOR 46 YEARS.
CHRISTO SKETCHES THE DESIGN OVER
THE PHOTOS TO MAKE A KIND OF
BLUEPRINT.
>> NOW IT'S THIS FANTASTIC
MOMENT WHEN THE PROJECT IS
FINISHED AND REALIZED AND YOU
LOOK AT IT AND YOU SAY, "WELL,
IT LOOKS JUST LIKE THE DRAWINGS
HOWEVER A LITTLE BIT BETTER."
>> Reporter: CHRISTO'S TEAM
IDENTIFIES SUITABLE MATERIALS,
AND ALMOST EVERYTHING IS
MANUFACTURED FROM SCRATCH.
ON LAKE ISEO, HIS TEAM TOOK FIVE
MONTHS TO SET THE CUBES IN
PLACE, FILLING THOSE NEAR THE
EDGES WITH WATER TO CREATE THE
PIERS' SLOPING EFFECT.
WE WATCHED THE FINISHING
TOUCHES: 3.5 MILLION CUBIC FEET
OF MADE-TO-ORDER FABRIC BEING
LAID OVER THE PIERS AND THE
STREETS LEADING TO THE WATER'S
EDGE.
THE BUDGET FOR ALL OF THIS--
$19.5 MILLION DOLLARS-- IS PAID
FOR ENTIRELY BY CHRISTO FROM THE
SALE OF HIS ART.
LIKE HIS PREVIOUS MONUMENTAL
WORKS, THE FLOATING PIERS ARE
TEMPORARY.
THEY WILL BE OPEN ONLY 16 DAYS
AND THEN DISMANTLED-- THE
MATERIALS, RECYCLED.
AND THAT'S PART OF THE POINT.
>> PEOPLE COME TO BE PRESENT FOR
SOMETHING THAT EXISTS ONCE IN A
LIFETIME AND NEVER AGAIN.
>> Reporter: IS IT ART OR IS IT
SPECTACLE?
>> NO, IT'S THE PHYSICAL ART.
FIRST THING- PUT IN MIND ALL
OUR PROJECTS GAVE UNIQUE IMAGE
FROM THE CONCEPT TO TODAY IS A
WORK OF ART.
WE PUT TOGETHER ENORMOUS
INTELLIGENCE OF PEOPLE,
ENGINEERS.
TO DISCOVER MYSELF HOW THE
PROJECT WILL LOOK IS INCREDIBLE
JOY.
>> Reporter: TEMPERING THAT
JOY--
THIS IS THE FIRST MAJOR
PROJECT CHRISTO HAS COMPLETED
WITHOUT HIS WIFE, JEANNE CLAUDE,
WHO DIED IN 2009.
PHOTOGRAPHER WOLFGANG VOLZ SAYS
SHE IS MISSED.
>> IF WE HAVE A BIG PROBLEM WE
ALWAYS SAY: ' WHAT WOULD JEANNE
CLAUDE HAVE DONE TO FIX IT, IF
IT WERE CATASTROPHE OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT?
(LAUGHS)
YOU DEAL WITH PERMANENT DANGER
OF CATASTROPHE.
>> Reporter: WHILE THERE HAVEN'T
BEEN ANY "CATASTROPHES," THE
FLOATING PIERS HAVE POSED SOME
UNEXPECTED CHALLENGES.
RAIN AND WIND FORCE PARTS OF THE
PIERS TO CLOSE AT TIMES.
MONITORS LIKE THIS WOMAN,
INSTRUCTED TO KEEP BABY
STROLLERS OFF THE OUTER PIER,
BECAUSE OF THE WIND, FACE
ARGUMENTS FROM UPSET MOMS.
WEAR AND TEAR FROM THE MUCH-
LARGER-THAN-EXPECTED CROWDS ALSO
CAUSE THE PIERS TO OCCASIONALLY
CLOSE AT NIGHT FOR MAINTENANCE
AND REPAIRS.
BUT, ALL IN ALL, AS CHRISTO
PASSED BY ON HIS BOAT, VISITORS
HAVE CHEERED THE FLOATING PIERS
AS A SUCCESS.
AND CHRISTO IS NOW LOOKING AHEAD
TO TWO MORE LARGE SCALE
PROJECTS- A PYRAMID-LIKE
STRUCTURE IN THE UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES AND A CURTAIN OF FABRIC
OVER THE ARKANSAS RIVER IN THE
U.S., WHICH HAS BEEN HIS HOME
SINCE THE 1960S.
YOU JUST TURNED 81-YEARS-OLD.
>> YES, YES.
>> Reporter: WHEN I ASKED IF HE
WOULD EVER SLOW DOWN, CHRISTO
QUOTED SOMETHING HIS WIFE USED
TO SAY.
>> THE ARTIST DOES NOT RETIRE.
THEY SIMPLY DIE.
(LAUGHS)
AND THIS IS WHY ART IS NOT A
BUSINESS; IT'S THE EXISTENCE.
>> Reporter: DOES IT EVER MAKE
YOU SAD TO SEE THE PROJECT TAKEN
DOWN?
>> NO, NO.
>> Reporter: YOU LIKE TO MOVE
ON?
>> TO MOVE ON.
LIKE OUR LIFE.
>> Reporter: A LIFE SPENT
CREATING ART THAT IS FLEETING,
MEANT TO BE SAVORED IN THE
MOMENT.
>> Sreenivasan: GERMAN POLICE
SAY THEY PREVENTED A REPEAT OF
LAST YEAR'S NEW YEAR'S EVE
MAYHEM IN THE CITY OF COLOGNE BY
SCREENING HUNDREDS OF MEN FROM
NORTH AFRICAN COUNTRIES LAST
NIGHT.
POLICE SAY 650 MEN UNDERWENT
IDENTITY CHECKS AT THE COLOGNE
TRAIN STATION.
LAST NEW YEAR'S EVE, MEN WHO
APPEARED TO BE OF NORTH AFRICAN
AND ARAB DESCENT ALLEGEDLY
ROBBED, GROPED, AND SEXUALLY
ASSAULTED HUNDREDS OF WOMEN AT
THE HOLIDAY CELEBRATION AROUND
THE COLOGNE CATHEDRAL.
THE INCIDENT HELPED FUEL THE
RISE OF GERMANY'S ANTI-
IMMIGRATION PARTY CHALLENGING
CHANCELLOR ANGELA MERKEL'S IN
THIS YEAR'S ELECTION.
IN HER NEW YEAR'S ADDRESS TO THE
NATION YESTERDAY, MERKEL SAID
ISLAMIC TERRORISM IS THE BIGGEST
TEST FACING GERMANY.
IN FRANCE, THE NEW YEAR BRINGS
MANY WORKERS GREATER RIGHTS TO
UNPLUG.
THEY'LL NOW BE ABLE TO IGNORE
WORK EMAILS OUTSIDE NORMAL
OFFICE HOURS WHEN THEY'RE AT
HOME OR ON VACATION.
THE "RIGHT TO DISCONNECT" LAW
REQUIRES EMPLOYERS WITH 50 OR
MORE WORKERS TO NEGOTIATE AND
DEFINE WHEN STAFF SHOULD NOT
SEND OR REPLY TO EMAILS.
OFFICIALS IN FRANCE'S SOCIALIST-
LED GOVERNMENT SAY THE IDEA IS
TO HELP PREVENT WORKER STRESS
AND BURNOUT.
FRANCE LIMITED THE STANDARD
WORKWEEK TO 35 HOURS BACK IN
2000.
HERE IN THE UNITED STATES, FOUR-
AND-A-HALF MILLION LOW-INCOME
WORKERS STAND TO GET A RAISE
TODAY.
THE MINIMUM WAGE IS GOING UP IN
20 STATES ACCORDING TO "THE WALL
STREET JOURNAL."
IT'LL BE TEN-DOLLARS-AN-HOUR OR
HIGHER IN CALIFORNIA,
MASSACHUSETTS, ARIZONA,
CONNECTICUT, VERMONT, WASHINGTON
AND IN WASHINGTON D-C.
ARIZONA HAS THE BIGGEST JUMP: A
DOLLAR-95 AN HOUR, WHICH AFFECTS
ONE IN EVERY NINE WORKERS.
THERE'S NO CHANGE YET IN THE
FEDERAL MINIMUM WAGE, THAT'S
STILL 7$.25 AN HOUR, WHERE IT'S
BEEN SINCE 2009 WITH NO
ADJUSTMENTS FOR INFLATION.
FINALLY, PORTUGAL'S ANTONIO
GUTERRES HAS TAKEN OVER AS THE
NEW SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE
UNITED NATIONS.
THE 67-YEAR-OLD GUTERRES IS A
FORMER PRIME MINISTER OF
PORTUGAL AND U.N. HIGH
COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES.
HE SUCCEEDS BAN KI MOON OF SOUTH
KOREA.
GUTERRES PROMISED TODAY TO BE A"
BRIDGE BUILDER" AND "TO PUT
PEACE FIRST."
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
GOOD NIGHT AND HAPPY NEW YEAR.